# Hags

Hags are female humanoids who make pacts with the dark fey powers through an eldrich ritual. These pacts are not unlike those made by warlocks. However, a hag is granted primal powers as an immediate boon of the ritual and thereafter progresses slowly or not at all in the practice of magical arts. The nature of the fey being at the other end of the bargain determines the type of power granted to the hag. Her innate capacity as a vessel for the primal power source determines its level.

However young and beautiful a female may be when she performs the pact ritual, the strain of channeling raw, primal energy through a body unprepared for it quickly transforms the hag into a withered crone of her species. A hag's life-force is intertwined with her powers and she will live only for as long or short a time as her pact sponsor is pleased keep the conduit open. Usually, the fey power demands escalating levels of service in exchange. For this reason, hags are unmatched for hustle. They are constantly scheming, whether it is to do their sponsor's bidding or to unlock the secrets that would allow them to tap into primal energy directly and free themselves from their pacts.

Because the price is so terrible, the pact ritual is typically performed by females who have turned their back on the world and seek the power to wreak vengeance. A common scenario is that of a young woman who is jilted by a lover and withdraws into bitter seclusion. One day, a wise old woman approaches her and offers her a means of revenge. Of course, there is a price to be paid, but how could her existence be more miserable than it is now?

In addition to Common and their racial language, hags speak and write in Nethershin, a derivative of Arcanic known only among hags. They do not teach it to others, although they may use some words of it in commands or passwords taught to allied creatures such as nightmares or ogres. Some hag covens have also developed ciphers which allow them to set down secret writings in such a way that they cannot be read by a _Comprehend Languages_ ritual. Ciphers vary in their strength. Breaking a cipher-text usually requires at least an Insight skill check of at least Hard difficulty in addition to the ability to read the language of the plain-text. Some particularly difficult ciphers require a complex skill challenge to decrypt.