# History of the Telenar Colonies

## Colonization of Rothannur

The island of Essealona too small to contain such a vigorous people as the Telenar for long. They sailed across the strait they named Esse-Alannion and established trade with the remnants of the Old Kingdom cities in the southwest of mainland Arestor. They also made their way to the ancient port town of Brynn began a lucrative trade with the dwarves of Azenendhal.

A little more than two hundred years ago, in the reign of Palancar I, the Telenar colonized the west central land they renamed Palanor, which lay nearly abandoned after long years of struggle with the goblins of the southern Rhunnur mountains.

The Telenar settlers founded the city of Telenarion and pushed south along the west coast until they encountered occupied lands of the former Old Kingdom. Likewise, they settled the plains and hill country of Palanor until they encountered the halfling homeland to the north. Basically decent folk, the Telenar settled in alongside their human and halfling neighbors, but drove the goblins and their allies from the mountainous regions they renamed Rhunnur and Rothannur as far as their might could reach.

The Telenar populated the hill country to the south of the great forest of Iaellon and founded a city, Delastarion, where the Talonnin and Celandon rivers meet. However, as the goblin population recovered, these settlements became indefensible. Raiders from the forests and moors of the Wild Country, Dhoar, halted the settler's eastward expansion. During the administration of a disastrously ineffective Marshall, Delariol the Inept, a goblin army sacked Delastarion and was only repelled at the Shield Wall at great cost.

## The Blood Moon Uprising

After the fall of Delastarion, the goblin tribes of Dhoar found themselves unhindered by its garrison and began attacking Telenar settlements north of the Shield Wall. United by the Ghost Shield Movement, the tribes staged an all-out assault on Rothannur timed to begin with The Blood Moon, a celestial event prophesied to mark an uprising by the spirits of the goblin ancestors in which all non-goblin races would be wiped out. Aided by dark magic which protected the elite Ghost Shield warriors and reanimated their corpses once they were killed, the goblins overran the Shield Wall. However, a surprise assault by an army of hobgoblins through southern Rothannur planned to coincide with the goblin assault in the north did not come off as expected. Undistracted, the Telenar threw their full weight against the goblins. Telenar pikemen supported by stout halfling archers stopped the goblin advance. A counter-charge by heavy cavalry from Palanor trapped the goblins against the Shield Wall, where they were subsequently slaughtered by the advancing pikemen.

This great battle has come to be called the Battle of Evenard Spur after the foothill east of the Celadonnin where the pikemen formed up to meet the goblin onslaught. Its aftermath left Delastarion isolated as the goblin tribes withdrew to their traditional territories in the wild lands of Dhoar. Many of the mercenary companies of bugbears had joined the goblins in the expectation of spoils from the invasion. Only scattered survivors escaped, many of them to Bar-Krorgroshir, as the goblins re-named Delastarion. However, Telenar casualties from the initial assault were heavy and the uncertain situation in the south required a much larger garrison to be stationed in Beleraid. For these reasons, Marshall Galaron deemed it impractical to reoccupy the lands beyond the Shield Wall.