# History of the Azruun Empire

The Azruun were a race of humans corrupted by contact with the Shadowfell. Originating in what is now Hannesh, the Azruun made an alliance with the nomadic horse-tribes of present-day Kazgad. The nomads overran the southeast of the continent and the Azruun wizard-warlords conquered the east coast and set themselves up as rulers in Xandul, a city that now lays drowned off the coast of Hannesh. Inexorably, they extended their dominion north, driving the dwarves of the Southern Kindred out of the hills of Kazgad into Narandel and likewise pushing the goblins back into the mountains of Beranur.

Azruun tyranny lasted less than a hundred and fifty years. Pushing beyond the wildlands of Dhoar, the Azruun and their allies met their match in the elven kingdom of Asarial. The witch-king Narastur built a fortress in the badlands between Iaellon and Asarial and waged war with the elves. After seven years of siege, the elven child-sorceress Lianniel, an incarnation of Dialiannon the Eternal, met Narastur and his Circle of Seven in an arcane battle before the gates of Asarial. In this titanic struggle, both Narastur and Lianniel were destroyed and an unintended release of unfettered elemental power led to a cataclysm that sank Karghad beneath the waves of the Eastern Ocean and laid waste to the city of Asarial and all the country around it. This isolated the islands currently known as Ilshan from the mainland and greatly enlarged the lake of Merenalyenwe.

As wizards the Azruun ruling class were highly literate and as conquerers they recognized the value of written records for the administration of their empire. They did not, however, commission works of literature, as they were preoccupied with the pursuit of arcane power for the sake of personal ambition. Consequently, the surviving record of the Azruun ascendency is concerned mostly with self-aggrandizing historical accounts and mundane details of governance, taxation and campaign logistics.

The Azruun worshipped no gods but themselves, but they had pacts and alliances with powerful beings from the infernal and shadow spheres. Fearing perhaps the judgment that awaits the dead, they developed rituals to bind their spirits to the world as long as their bodies should last. Embalmed and entombed after death, many lingered in the world as wraiths and wights, while some found a living embalment in lich-hood. They sought thus to preserve their mortal existence indefinitely in the hope of eventual resurrection, perhaps in service to a great witch-king as foretold in the prophecies of their race.