# Lost Valley

A 5e adventure for 4 14th level characters

## Background

In the days of the Old Kingdom, the dwarves of the Southern Kindred delved mines in the mountains above the north side of the valley they called Khedred-mahar, the Hidden Valley. The lands on the south side of the valley were covered in lush jungle and roamed by huge beasts that had survived from prehistoric times. Bands of hostile grungs stalked the dense cover of the lowlands and the primitive villages of lizard-folk dotted the hills. These lands the dwarves wisely left alone -- save to journey warily back through the Hidden Pass bearing hoarded ingots of gold and silver to seek wives among their kin.

To open trade with the human lands to the west, the dwarves delved a tunnel beneath the mountains. The commerce was rich and in the days of the Kingdom of Sarnakad, human traders established a trading post called Sarnad at the valley terminus of the Golden Tunnel. Sarnad grew into a large city and human towns sprung up all along the north side of the valley to serve the needs of the dwarves who labored in the mines above.

Things went well until they didn't. Madrezakar IV ("The Unlucky") began excavation of another tunnel, this one to carry water to the dry hills of Sarnakad. The attempt ended in a disaster that flooded the valley basin around the fledgling city of Mendra and drowned the dwarven halls of Khazaz-druul. Bullywugs promptly infested the resulting swamp and hindered Madrezakar's efforts to drain it. Worse, a band of Yuan-ti took advantage of the situation to slip into the hills south of the valley and establish secret bases from which they sent infiltrators into the human settlements. The fruit of their efforts was an escalation of blood-feuds among the merchant-houses of the valley. This civil unrest spurred the King of Sarnakad to close the western terminus of the Tunnel. Ulitmately, Sarnad was ripped apart in an spree of violence and looting triggered by a series of assassinations perpetrated by Yuan-ti infiltrators. From an abundance of distrust, the towns along the valley closed their gates against the refugees.

With nothing more to be gained by secrecy, the Yuan-ti revealed themselves and built a fortified town of their own, Yl'tsii, with slave-labor seized from among the displaced humans and stone ripped from the dwarven quarry at Khed-khmir. As is common with the snake-people, success spawned division and treachery. Having failed in an attempt at coup-de-etat, a faction of Yuan-ti fled Yl'tsii to establish a rival town, Yl'nyez. The snake-people made stealthy war on each other and on the grungs to their north -- strife which spared the human settlements from conquest. 

Rumors of strife amid the source of such riches must have reached the wrong ears because another calamity soon befell the Valley in the voracious form of Ezgron the Acerbic, a black dragon. The wyrm reduced the now-isolated fortress of Adrach and went on to attack the dwarven halls at Elez-druul, which ultimately fell -- howbeit to treachery rather than the dragon's wrath. Ezgron established her lair amid the ruins of Mendra and hoarded there the spoils of Adrach and Elez-druul together with the pitiful leavings of Sarnad. Kobolds multiplied like vermin among the ruins and the dragon pressed many lizard-folk into her service, but the bullywugs she hunted as they were tasty -- especially with garlic.

With trade to the west cut off and passage to the east increasingly perilous, the dwarves abandoned their mines -- reluctantly since many veins of precious metal remained untapped. Reluctantly too they bribed the lizardfolk of the east valley in red gold and weapons of steel for safe passage to the Hidden Pass. With this wealth, the chieftains of the east vally lizardfolk grew their influence and expanded their territory at the expense of the grungs and Yuan-ti -- until their rivalries broke out into war. Eventually two rival chieftaincies glared at each other across the east end canyon. 

After a few years of turmoil, the inhabitants of valley reached a rough balance of power. The humans huddled in their fortified towns against the depredations of the Yuan-ti, but could not unite to oppose them. The divided tribes of snake-people and lizardfolk warred among themselves and raided the other valley-folk in the brief snatches of truce. The bullywugs and grungs could not be routed from their territory, but neither could they expand into lands with less-favorable terrain. The dragon, indolent and arrogant as all her kind, was content to brood over her hoard and have meals delivered.

Into this uneasy status quo came Lilliath, a demoness of uneartly beauty whose worship had withered after the fall of the Old Kingdom. Disguised, she moved among the valley dwellers, learning of their rivalries, ambitions, fears, strengths, and weaknesses. In isolated ni-Shemar, she insinuated herself into the priestesshood of Asher-ai and suborned the cult to her own ends. She chose strong women disgruntled with male authority, trained them in the arts of combat and sorcery, and mounted them on prehistoric beasts charmed to her will. The success of these fearsome amazons in combat robbed the male warriors of their valor and worth. In a generation, the new female elite had enslaved the men of ni-Shemar along with the women unfit as warriors or priestesses, whom the amazons despised equally. Lilliath repeated this formula in ni-Shuba and soon bands of amazons fought each other across what became known as the Forbidden Canyon -- for this suited the demon's purposes. In ni-Shursil and ni-Ammentu, the men suppressed the cult of Asher-ai and avoided the fate of their fellows to the east, unless of course, they were captured in raids.

In secret, Lilliath enticed the elite warriors and priestesses among the amazons to participate in rituals dedicated to herself, rather than the moon-goddess. These dark rites ehanced their prowess, but gradually robbed them of their humanity, transforming them into Shrikes -- winged furies bound to Lialliath's service. The sorceress enthralled the last of the dwarves who had lingered in the mines of Markad-dun and set them to restore the abandoned fortress-tower of Hargrad-tol, which became known to the human population as goz-Cardraz, the "Tower of the Sorceress". From this stronghold, Lialliath suborned the lizardfolk of Biumurru to her service, sealing her control of the mountainsides east of the canyon.

From her stronghold, Liallith moved in secret among the leaders of the valley folk, pitting each faction against the others to preserve the balance of power and ensure her own position in it. The dragon Ezgron alone recognized Liallith's true nature and deferred to her accordingly. The Yuan-ti did not know exactly who and what Liallith is, but they instinctively paid her homage. She intimidated the Bullywugs and Grungs with displays of raw power.

Her position secure, the Sorceress began to exact tribute. From Ezgron, Lilliath commands service. From the snake, frog, and lizard folk, she demands treasure -- whether found in the dwarven ruins, gleaned from the hills and jungle, or robbed from travelers. From the valley folk she takes a levy easier to obtain but more precious -- three children under a year old each year from each township. These tributes she gathers in secret and the tributaries do not acknowledge their capitulations, especially not to themselves.

Liallith plans to establish worship of herself among all the denizens of the valley. Sidur, Archpriestess of Asher-ai among the ni-Shuba, suspects this and plots to thwart the Sorceress, but must move carefully because she cannot trust even the initiates of her own sect outside a handful of proven loyalists.

## Places

_Map:_ [Lost Valley Map](LostValleyMap.pdf)

[Halls of Kazaz-druul](HallsOfKazaz-druul.md)
