# Prisoner of the Feywild

## Introduction

### The Treachery of the Usurper

Caladron son of Celesor served as regent of Essealona during the minority of Nessaran, rightful heir to the throne. The regent grew accustomed to the perquisites of power, but his schemes to stay on the throne was not yet ripe by the time Nessaran came of age and ascended the throne as King Allenar III. It took another year of schemes and secret bargains before Caladron felt that the time was at hand to strike. Calculating that the young king's fondness for the hunt was his greatest vulnerability, Caladron acted through intermediaries to strike a bargain with powerful denizens of the Feywild. In exchange for their services, the regent promised to withdraw support for the Telenar settlements north of the Shield Wall.

Even after assuming power, Caladron feared to forswear the oaths he had taken to the mysterious fey. To fulfill his part of the bargain, the usurper issued decrees that undermined the economic and military viability of the northern settlements. Still the settlers refused to abandon their homesteads. Finally, Caladron disbanded the King's Own Borderers, an act that doomed the settlements, but also cost the usurper the support of the colonial governors.

Caladron's eventual downfall produced no information as to the fate of the missing king. Although the wizards of the Blue Tower have reason to believe that the king is still alive, the manner of his disappearance and his current whereabouts are still unknown. Some members of the inner circle of the Order of the Guardians of the Scepter know the truth and have used their influence to prevent the Borderers from being re-formed or an effective search for the missing king from being mounted.

### The Secret of King Allenar's Disappearance

The circumstances of the king's disappearance are these. Agents of the Order of the Briar planted a sapling of the great tree Laessedomon in the forest northeast of Tyrneon, thereby establishing a fey crossing, an intrusion of the Feywild into the mortal world. They then lured a unicorn through the channel and into the path of Allenar's hunting party. Maddened by the scent of the magical beast, the king's hounds bounded off in pursuit and, not knowing what it was they chased, the king spurred his favorite hunter on to follow them. The young monarch's companions and guard quickly fell off the chase as Allenar's horse easily leaped hurdles that raised insurmountably before them as they approached. Suddenly, Allenar's hunter crashed into a thicket and the king was swept from the saddle by clutching branches and clinging thorns.

Rendered unconscious by the fall, Allenar came to some time later and found himself quite alone in the midst of a dark wood thickly forested by ancient trees. His horse was nowhere to be seen and the thick canopy of leaves hid the sun, so the king set off in a more or less random direction, hoping to find some familiar landmark by which to orient himself. However, the prospect of this seemed increasingly dim as the forest seemed unlike any in which he had ever traveled. Unfamiliar bird-calls echoed around him and even the plants and trees seemed strange.

Stopping by a swift stream to slake his thirst, Allenar was struck by the refreshing taste of the clear water. He presently felt restored as though he had had a restful night's sleep in the softest of beds instead of having lain senseless in a patch of briar. Encouraged to press on, the young monarch followed the course of the stream until he came onto a willow-shaded glade. There, playing on a standing-swing of flower-garlanded vines suspended from the branches of an ancient elm overhanging the coursing water, was a slender maid of surpassing loveliness. Alone, but completely unafraid, she met his entranced gaze with bright eyes the color of jade, then stepped a dainty, bare foot to the riverbank and was away across the stream, holding the skirts of her pale amber-green gown to keep its hem dry. After several moments, Allenar recovered his senses and hurried to follow, but if the maid had crossed on a ford of stones, the king could not find it. Forced to wade chest-deep through frigid water, Allenar arrived wet and breathless on the farther shore. Of the maid, he could see no sign, but her bright laughter floated on the breeze that stirred the willow-branches and mingled with the murmur of the stream.

Enflamed, the king pursued the maid deeper and deeper into the forest, following the haunting sound of her laughter or brief glimpses of her golden hair or pale gown among the trunks of the trees. His pursuit ended at a moss-grown grotto from which gushed a spring of crystal water. There, among ancient columns of marble overgrown with vines and upholding long-ruined arches fronting the mouth of the cave, he beheld the face of Lyressea, naiad of the spring, and fell under her enchantment.

In her bower, Lyressa holds Allenar a captive to her beauty. There she dallies with him and he waits moonstruck on her whim. Although it seems to the king as though it were only a golden summer afternoon, in the Feywild time runs differently than it does in the mortal world outside. The king has been missing for several months and unless bold heroes intervene to rescue him, his return, if it ever comes at all, may come too late for there to be a throne in Essealona for him to reclaim.

## Adventure Hooks

### The Tale of the Borderers

At an inn Telenarion, the adventurers meet two of their former comrades in the King's Own Borderers, Captain Trevalor and Lieutenant Farin, and reminisce. Their musings soon fall on why Caladron disbanded the unit and speculations about why the current regent Areglen has not reinstated it. Trevalor and Farin then tell of a mission they undertook in the year before their recruiting trip to The Downs. The two were stationed in Haranir and had just finished training a company of newly-recruited Borderers. While preparing to lead the company to their post at one of the settlements north of the Shield Wall, Trevalor was summoned to the command post. There, Trevalor's commander greeted him and then left the Borderer alone in his office. A short time later, an officer of the Esselonean guard came into the room, accompanied by a woman wearing a hooded gown and a veil that concealed all of her face except her piercing emerald eyes. The officer charged Trevalor to escort the woman, who would travel disguised as a Borderer, to his company's destination and then guide her north to the source of the Talonnin River. Since this would mean a journey of weeks through goblin territory, the officer told Trevalor to take Farin, but no one else, as their hope for success lay in stealth and woodcraft rather than in numbers. The officer did not reveal the purpose of the woman's journey nor did he say what they were to do once they had reached their destination.

Trevalor told Farin of this strange assignment and the two managed to pass off the slender, but athletic woman dressed in Borderer garb as their aide, to whom they gave the name Dernholm. At the post, the three pretended to ride back toward the Shield Wall, but doubled back and left their horses at an arranged drop-off point. From there, they trekked away across country by night, following the course of the Celadonnin northward. They moved stealthily along the eaves of the forest, picking their way past the encampments of goblins that lay on the east bank of the river across from the walled town of Delastarion, which had fallen several years previously. The Borderers expected the town to be in ruins and were amazed to see that its walls had been repaired and that smoke rose from chimneys and cook-fires within. Although the woman retained hidden under hood, scarf and gloves, she no longer disguised her dusky, but feminine voice and arrogant bearing. She seemed no stranger to woodcraft or to combat for that matter. Once, during a fight with a band of orcs that had picked up their trail, she drew off one her gloves to open a case at her belt that held a short rod of gnarled briarwood. In the split-second illuminations of the crackling, dark energy that flowed from the rod and destroyed several of their foes, Farin noticed the tattoo that covered the back of the woman's hand in a design as of interlaced briars.

At the edge of a wooded glade at the foot of Karad-Mishrak, the Blue Mountain, the woman bade the Borderers to wait for her in hiding. She then strode away on foot and alone. As she went, she unveiled her face and drew back her hood. Since her back was turned to them, the two men never beheld her face, but they saw at a distance the cascade of curly copper hair that flowed down her back. When she returned five days later, she was again veiled and hooded, and her demeanor was grim, as though she bore some terrible responsibility. In her gloved hands she bore a parcel long and thin, bulbous at the bottom end and covered in fine green cloth of a loose weave. The Borderers watched first in puzzlement as she plaited what seemed to be a toy boat of reeds gleaned from the water's edge, then in amazement as she spoke words of power over it and it grew into a sturdy river boat. Bidding each of the men to take an oar at the center of the boat, she stood in the stern with a long sweep and guided the craft downriver. At night, they drew the boat from the water, marveling at how light it seemed, and slept beneath its upturned hull. The woman seemed unconcerned that their passing would be marked and, indeed, when they passed under the very battlements of Delastarion on the morning of the fifth day of their voyage, the goblin watchmen squinting into the sun seemed to take no notice of them.

In this manner, the three arrived at their destination at twilight a week after they had set out. Drawing the boat from the water a short distance upriver of the outpost, the woman spoke more words and it shrank again to a tiny craft of sodden reed, which she shredded and cast into the swift water. Staying well clear of the settlement, the Borderers and the woman crept across country until they reached an isolated farmhouse, the barn of which sheltered three horses with tack and gear sufficient for their journey back to Haranir. They set off by night and camped only after they had traveled several hours. They reached Haranir in another four days. Scarcely had they hailed the guards and passed within the gates of the fort, than the Borderers realized that Dernholm and her mount had vanished amid the throngs of soldiers and rangers. Trevalor and Farin never saw the woman or the Essealonan officer again and their commander made no mention of their extended absence, but the Borderers' pay-purses that month held thrice their usual weight in coin of the realm.

The adventurer's former comrades-in-arms say that there is some secret at the source of the Talonnin River, but they have hired on as leaders of a newly-formed company called the Copper River Foresters at the very opposite end of Rothannur. It seems that the border with the city-states of Khanashar bears more watching than it once did.

## Outdoor Encounters

The border between the Greenwood and Blightland is the Silverbeam River, which flows from the Bluefrost Mountains. Its water is clear, swift, and in most places too deep to ford. The Ford of Dagoreth allows passage, but it is well-known and is guarded on both sides.

Dryannia, the Lady of the Wood is ever on her guard against incursions by spies and raiders from Cymmyrion. The denizens of the primeval forests beyond the Silverbeam will tend to assume that interlopers are enemies of the Lady and will act to thwart them.

### Encounter 1: The Unicorn

_Within an hour of your entry into Faelyon, you come upon a forest glade. On the other side of the clearing, you see a **unicorn** step out of the cover of the trees and stand still, regarding you. After a short pause, the unicorn slips back between the trunks of the trees and vanishs amid the undergrowth._

The unicorn is both guardian and harbinger. Its very presence lets the adventurers know that they are in an area of Aelvalon that is not under the control of the Dark Fey. It will follow the party at a distance to size them up. If the party is good-aligned and acts accordingly, the unicorn may well allow them to roam freely. If the party is clearly evil-aligned, the magical beast will gallop ahead to warn weaker fey creatures to stay out of the adventurers' way and to raise resistance to their passage among the stronger fey. If it is unsure, the unicorn will approach by stealth to get close enough to use its detect evil and good spell.

### Encounter 2: The Grotto

_Deep within a primeval forest of beech, birch, and hemlock, a waterfall issues from a cave in a cliffside and plunges to a pool six fathoms below. The pool spreads widely at the base of the cliff before it drains away into a merry, churning stream. At its margins grow water-lillies and rushes. The banks of the stream are shaded by ancient willow trees whose branches trail almost into the water._

In this place of pristine beauty, a **dryad** named Lyressa dallies with her prisoner in love, a mortal man. But no ordinary mortal, for he is none other than King Allenar II.

Lyressa’s home is guarded by her friends and allies in the area. A herd of twenty **centaurs**, five of which are warriors, keeps watch on the most likely approach. In the woods near the pool, a band of thirty-two **pixies** makes merry, but also keeps an eye out for intruders. Moreover, an indigo **faerie dragon** lairs in a hollow beech nearby. The centaurs will directly challenge interlopers, but the other fey, including Lyressa herself, will use their powers to lead unwelcome creatures away from the grotto.

Allenar is held under Lyressa’s charm and is entirely besotted with her. However, if he is presented with his sword or if the enchantment is lifted with a spell such as greater restoration, he will recall his duty to his nation and will desire to return immediately to Essealona.

### Encounter 3: The Guard Wold

_The sacred grove is hemmed in by a dark and forbidding wood of ancient elm, oak, and spruce trees. Between their mighty boles, thickets of hemlock, scrub oak, and fir shrubs make it impossible to progress through the wood except by twisting paths that follow terrain features such as creeks and gullies._

The druids of the Order of the Briar selected this area to so that they could set guardian creatures on selected choke-points to control access to the sacred grove. Consequently, the adventurers are bound to encounter at least one group of guardians — a group of four **battlebriars** and a mated pair of **owlbears**. These guardian creatures will immediately attack interlopers.

### Encounter 4: The Sacred Grove

_The undergrowth grows more sparse and the close-set elms give way to a lighter growth of ash and rowan. Around the crown of a sunny hillock in this grove, grow six gigantic trees -- beech, maple, elm, oak, chestnut, spruce, and larch. Within this protective circle stands a lone sapling with golden bark and oval leaves that are a deep olive green above and a silver-green below._

The giant trees are, in fact, six **treants** set to guard the sacred sapling. These guardians of the sacred grove were set here by Order druids and will immediately attack any creature not an initiate of that sect that dares to approach the sapling. Mordwen, an **archdruid** of the Order of the Briar, his protege Andred, a **high druid**, and three other **druids** of their order, will step out of rowan trees to join in the combat at the start of the second round. At the start of the third round of combat, Elwyss, a **warlock** of the Order, will teleport into an advantageous location and enter combat as well.

The druids can use _tree stride_ between any of the rowan trees in the grove without using a spell slot or requiring concentration. Supporting druids of the Order will also have summoned stomy weather to the skies above the grove.

Iyessa the vampire spawn nymph knows her way here, for she was a denizen of the surrounding forest before she was captured and enslaved to Tyriana. She knows a ritual that will allow the sapling to be safely removed for transplantation. The ritual takes 10 minutes to cast.
