# Rashazar

## Description

High among the Hobgoblin Emperor Barazan’s inner council is Rashazar, the Imperial Counselor for Arcane Affairs. Rashazer always appears as a humanoid cloaked, hooded, gloved and robed in black. None have ever seen his face and it is unclear whether he is even a hobgoblin, but the gaze of his chill, black eyes can be felt if not seen. There is a palpable aura of negative energy in his presence - icy cold, darkness and despair attend him always.

In fact, Rashazer is one of a very few surviving members of the Azruun race. As the last pureblood Azruun sorcerer, he is the arcane heir of the Codex of Narastur.

## Career

Although unaware of this legacy, he developed his innate talent for necromancy, made pacts with infernal forces and became a mighty warlock/sorcerer in his own right. Then a manuscript page of the Codex containing the ritual Postnatal Reincarnation came into his possession.

The Postnatal Reincarnation ritual evicts the spirit of a living child from its body and summons the spirit of a dead person into its place. Over the course of seven days, the child’s body is transformed into an exact duplicate of the dead person’s body, provided that the two are of the same race. At this point, the original child’s spirit cannot return to its body and the dead person’s spirit can live out a natural life in the borrowed body.

Rashazer realized that since the Azruun are humans corrupted by the taint of the Shadowfell, the Postnatal Reincarnation ritual could be used to resurrect the Azruun race. The sorcerer just needed ritual casters to spread the load, as many true names of dead Azruun as he could find, a ready supply of human children, and living space to handle their numbers. To this end, Rashazer subverted a religious cult in Hannesh as a front for his operations. The acolytes were tasked with researching Azruun history, the priests were trained in the dark rituals, and initiates of the sect infiltrated positions of influence in the capital, Alenenzer. At first, the sect purchased children on the open slave markets in Hannesh. However, when rumors began to spread that the cult was practicing human sacrifice, Rashazer outfitted pirate vessels with hobgoblin crews to obtain children through raids on the coastal settlements of Hannesh and Ophar.

The Red Reavers, as the pirates were called, grew stronger and bolder under Rashazer’s patronage. Some crews went rogue and seized the opportunity to attack merchant shipping and raid larger settlements for their own profit. The depredations of the pirates brought trade along the southeast coast to a halt and collapsed Hannesh’s economy as the coastal population fled inland. This worked to Rashazer’s advantage in destabilizing the Hanneshi government, but it also dried up the coastal slave trade and provoked the city-state of Khanengul to dispatch a fleet of war-galleys to drive the pirates from the Sea of Keraz. The Red Reavers lost many ships to the Khanashari pirate-hunters. Several more Reaver galleys were driven by storms to the islands of Ilshan and taken by _Euijin_ pirates.

Seeking fresh supplies of children, Rashazer turned his attention to the Telenar settlements in the Gap of Asarial.  To further this scheme, the sorcerer took service as counselor to the hobgoblin warlord Barazan. His arcane powers enabled Barazan to defeat all rivals and become Emperor. Rashazer then used his influence to spur Barazan to war with the Telenar colonists, beginning with the capture of the frontier stronghold of Delastarion.

By means of a series of dreams and visions, Rashazer inspired Urshaz, the goblin high shaman, to found the Ghost Shield movement and begin the series of attacks on the Telenar settlements in the Gap of Asarial. The newly-opened slave market in Delastarion was soon flooded with captives and the sorcerer’s agents stood ready to purchase any human children that came up for sale. Rashazer regards the goblins and hobgoblins as mere pawns to be swept away when they have fulfilled their part in his schemes. He is arrogantly amused by what he sees as Barazan’s presumptions and even feigns subservience.

As payment for Rashazer’s services, Barazan granted the sorcerer a fief carved from the forbidding mountains and dark forests on Beranur's east coast. There Rashazer located the hidden city of Zir-Sithgol, an ancient and long-abandoned stronghold, and began to repopulate it with revivified Azruun men and women. He selected a number of sorcerers as the first beneficiaries of Postnatal Reincarnation and bound them to his service while they were yet children. Together, they transformed this land into a place of dread, full of the dark energy of the Shadowfell. Even goblinkind shun the sorcerer’s domain.

Rashazer’s ambitions are broad, but they fall far short of Narastur’s vision for the Azruun race. Should he be reborn in Rashazer by means of the Codex, Narastur would seek no less than to reassemble the Circle of Seven, wipe out or enslave all other races on Arestor and Essealona, achieve true immortality in mortal form, revive Druannia, the long-dead Last Empress, and rule forever with her over a resurrected Azruun Empire.
