# Campaign Setting

### Aftermath of the Cataclysm

After the Cataclysm, the shattered remnant of the Illuvarin withdrew to the mountains of Elanarion. A violent earthquake forced the dwarves of the Southern Kindred to abandon the city of Sheurazak and the resulting economic collapse left its sister city, Shalenharazad, in a spiral of decline. In the power void left by the collapse of Azruun rule, Pashan broke away from Khanashar and promptly broke apart into a number of warring city-states. The Juchin dynasty retained their grip in Khanashar, but the Emperor's power is now greatly diminished and the horse nomads of the Golden Hills have reverted to their tribal ways. Unchecked in the central continent of Arestor, the goblins multiplied, drove the dwarves from the southern portion of Azenendhal and took the realm of Beranur as their own. There, the warlord Agarash united the hobgoblins and founded an empire. This was short-lived, but it established Beranur as the heart of darkness on mainland Arestor.

### Gathering Darkness

This campaign began sixty years later in the first year of the reign of King Allenar of Essealona. The Marshall, a veteran Borderers commander named Galaron, had been in office for only a few months when goblins began a series of bold raids against the settlements north of the Shield Wall. The King was greatly concerned about reports that the goblins were gathering under strong leadership and might renew their assault on Palannor. Allenar took steps to prepare the Telenar colonies for war, but after the King's sudden disappearance, the Regency government undid most of his work on the grounds that it was too expensive.

Allenar's concerns were well-founded. Underlying the rumors and sketchy reports, a hobgoblin warlord named Barazan who claims descent from Agarash gained supreme leadership of _Ker-Hrothkran_, the Hobgoblin Empire, and set up his throne in its capital, _Der-Hrothgrosh_. Barazan formed a pact with the goblin shaman Urshaz, who united the goblin tribes of Dhoar in a religious crusade to destroy humankind and drove them to war with the Telenar colonies. However, Barazan's simultaneous invasion of Rothannur failed and the colonists were able to focus their forces to drive the goblins back across the Shield Wall. Urshaz was slain and the tribes immediately fell back into disunity.
